h1. CakePackages

A self-contained application that automatically tracks cakephp developer's open source code repositories, including applications and plugins

h2. Background

After constantly searching for CakePHP code, I realized a lot of it existed on Github. And, in fact, the core code is on GitHub. So it seemed natural to create a site to index all this code.

Since I was unemployed, bored, and miserable, I decided to focus all my energy on creating just such a thing. That was over a year ago (March 1st seems to be my first commit, although I know I was working on it before then...), and the codebase has been through at least two redesigns and countless code iterations. I've learned a thing or two in the process, and have even gotten a job as a result of it.

This is an unofficial project. I do not foresee it becoming official for various reasons, some of which are private. Therefore, I do not expect it to get the traffic it deserves, or the developer manpower it needs. So it's a labor of love, on top of my already busy schedule. Please understand that when commenting on that.

h2. Requirements

* PHP 5.3+ .
* CakePHP 1.3.10+
* GIT for version control
* "God":https://github.com/mojombo/god for running DJJob in the background on a server

h2. Installation

_[Manual]_

# Download this: http://github.com/josegonzalez/cakepackages/zipball/master
# Unzip that download.
# Copy the resulting folder to a new directory containing the cake core

_[GIT Clone]_

<pre><code>git clone git://github.com/josegonzalez/cakepackages.git cakepackages</code></pre>

h2. Usage

You'll want to run the migrations for both cakepackages and the plugins. I've also included a schema.php file, as well as a slightly out of date sql dump

h2. Todo

* Documentation
* Set Default retry on CakeDjjob to be at least 1, so adding new packages/maintainers doesn't fail randomly
* Integrate with GitHub's OAuth implementation for user accounts
* Push user accounts and a user dashboard
** Possible dashboard aggregating both code and community resources useful to that person?
* Integrate a "risingcake.com":risingcake.com like news dashboard
* Fix RSS Sanitization such that characters that should be escaped are escaped properly
* Integrate a project's readme
* More robust application/plugin distinction, as well as checking both standards and to see if something that should be a plugin is
* Full Plugin Installer API. Docs to come
* Allow users to submit new packages for inclusion in the index
** Possible DDOS issue?
* More robust filtering
** May need to look into alternative searching systems, such as ElasticSearch or Sphinx
* Allow rating/commenting on packages
* Allow users to submit tags for a package
* Fix issue where packages that should be disabled are passing that check
* Add support for organizations
* Add support for CodaSet/Google Code/SourceForge/BitBucket/OTHER_NAME_HERE
* Unit tests
* Increase visibility across the web through social integration
* Minify assets for new design
* Add shell tasks to cron where necessary

h2. License

Copyright (c) 2011 Jose Diaz-Gonzalez

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.