h1. PageRoute Plugin

Forget about cluttering your @routes.php@ with zillions of @/page@-style routes.

h2. Background

Someone in IRC was migrating tons of static pages into a fresh CakePHP install. In the webroot. I was going to hurt him, but then told him to move them into @app/View/pages@ and use routes to properly route everything. I also mentioned that rather than routing every static file one by one, it might be possible using a custom @CakeRoute@ class, but didn't elaborate.

So a few minutes of hacking later, and here I am with this lovely @PageRoute@.

h2. Requirements

* PHP 5.2+
* CakePHP 2.x

h2. Installation

_[Manual]_

# Download this: http://github.com/josegonzalez/page_route/zipball/2.0
# Unzip that download.
# Copy the resulting folder to app/Plugin
# Rename the folder you just copied to @PageRoute@

_[GIT Submodule]_

In your app directory type:
<pre><code>git submodule add git://github.com/josegonzalez/page_route.git Plugin/PageRoute
git submodule init
git submodule update
cd Plugin/PageRoute
git checkout -t origin/2.0
</code></pre>

_[GIT Clone]_

In your plugin directory type
<pre><code>git clone --branch=2.0 git://github.com/josegonzalez/page_route.git PageRoute</code></pre>

h2. Usage

Way near the bottom of your @app/Config/routes.php@ file, add the following:

<pre><code>App::uses('PageRoute', 'PageRoute.Routing/Route');
Router::connect('/:page', array('controller' => 'pages', 'action' => 'display'),
	array('routeClass' => 'PageRoute')
);
</code></pre>

And now you can remove all shortcuts to your @/pages/display/page-name@ urls. Whenever you create a new @.ctp@ file in @app/views/pages@, this route will automatically detect it using a @file_exists()@ call. Because of this, it is recommended to use this as one of the last, if not the last, route in your application, in order to minimize file-reads.

It is also possible to customize the controller/action used for this. For example, we might want to use the @StaticPagesController::index()@ instead of @PagesController::display()@. In that case, our @routes.php@ would look like the following:

<pre><code>App::uses('PageRoute', 'PageRoute.Routing/Route');
Router::connect('/:page', array('controller' => 'static_pages', 'action' => 'index'),
	array('routeClass' => 'PageRoute', 'controller' => 'static_pages', 'action' => 'index')
);
</code></pre>

In this way, we can easily rename the @PagesController@ to something less useful, and reuse the @PagesController@ for something else - such as dynamic content from the database.

Reverse routing will all work the same as it does without this route class. @array('controller' => 'pages', 'action' => 'display', 'about')@ will be automatically converted to @array('controller' => 'pages', 'action' => 'display', 'page' =. 'about')@ for backwards compatibility Please note that by default, the regex @[\/\w_-]+@ is used to check the page validity, so you may need to update that regex in the Route options as follows:

<pre><code>App::uses('PageRoute', 'PageRoute.Routing/Route');
Router::connect('/:page', array('controller' => 'static_pages', 'action' => 'index'),
	array('routeClass' => 'PageRoute', 'page' => '[a-zA-Z]+')
);
</code></pre>

Note that the @.@ character has been disallowed in the default regex to remove the possibility of traversing the directory tree for security reasons.

h2. Todo

* Unit Tests
* Allow usage of the @.@ character in routes

h2. License

Copyright (c) 2011 Jose Diaz-Gonzalez

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
